# Trader App

**Trader App** is a robust and scalable application designed to retrieve, and store financial ticker data. Leveraging a modern technology stack, it ensures high performance and great flexibility. This application is built with Docker, Python, FastAPI, PostgreSQL, Pydantic, Redis, Elasticsearch, and SQLAlchemy. It uses Polygon.io to fetch the financial data.

## Features

- **Data Retrieval**: 
  - Collects financial ticker data in real-time or at regular intervals from Polygon.io.
- **Data Storage**:
  - Stores data in a PostgreSQL database for quick and efficient access.
- **Search and Analysis**:
  - Uses Elasticsearch for fast search .
- **Caching**:
  - Implements Redis for caching, enhancing application performance by reducing database load.
- **RESTful API**:
  - Exposes a RESTful API using FastAPI for secure and efficient interaction with the data.
- **Data Validation**:
  - Utilizes Pydantic for data validation to ensure data integrity and consistency.

## Technologies Used

- **Docker**: 
  - Containerization of the application for portability and simplified deployment.
- **Python**: 
  - Main programming language for application development.
- **FastAPI**: 
  - Web framework for building fast and performant APIs.
- **PostgreSQL**: 
  - Relational database management system for storing ticker data.
- **Pydantic**: 
  - Data validation and settings management.
- **Redis**: 
  - In-memory caching system for fast access to frequently used data.
- **Elasticsearch**: 
  - Search and analytics engine for exploring ticker data.
- **SQLAlchemy**: 
  - ORM for interacting with the PostgreSQL database.
- **Polygon.io**: 
  - Service for fetching real-time and historical financial data.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed on your local machine:

- Docker
- Docker Compose

### Steps

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone repo_name
   cd Trader
   
2. **Create docker compose file:**

   ```bash
   cp docker-compose.yml.override #Update env variables and add your polygon api key
   
3. **Build and start the Docker containers:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   
4. **Access the application:**

- The API will be available at http://localhost:8001.
- Elasticsearch will be available at http://localhost:9200.

## Usage

### API Endpoints
The API exposes several endpoints for interacting with the ticker data. The interactive API documentation, generated by FastAPI, is available at `http://localhost:8001/dms/docs`

**Example Endpoints:**

- GET /tickers: Retrieve a list of all tickers.
- POST /tickers: Add a new ticker.
- GET /tickers/{ticker_id}: Retrieve a specific ticker by its ID.
- PUT /tickers/{ticker_id}: Update a specific ticker by its ID.
- DELETE /tickers/{ticker_id}: Delete a specific ticker by its ID.

### Data Search

Elasticsearch is used for performing advanced searches. You can interact with Elasticsearch directly or through the API endpoints designed for search functionality.
- GET /tickers/search/{search_pattern}: Retrieve a list of ticker by search pattern


